# The project

The idea of the project was to utilize a simple CRUD-framework for a real-life need and implement it in a short timespan.
The project at hand uses Python and Flask, with Postgre, Apache2 and extensions to those. The project was done for the Python [course](https://terokarvinen.com/2021/python-web-service-from-idea-to-production/). The vast majority of the techniques and syntax is implemented from the course material by Tero Karvinen.

## The idea
The idea arises from my own experience of playing games with an 8 person group of people, both co-operatively and competitively across different platforms. Due to geographical constraints we don't meet in person, and as it still is only a fun pasttime, we haven't really set up any messaging groups. However, it would be handy to be able to share information about
good sales (which typically last for a fairly limited time only) and quickly get comments from other people, whether or not anyone is interested in playing the game, while providing facts about platform, price, availability in one single place. A further benefit to this approach is that most of us are no longer that young, so many aren't using social media at any scale. At this point, it's just a simple trial version to see if it actually catches on, but personally I won't miss typing in messages and trying to paste links from a gaming console's interface. 

## Implementation
It's a simple CRUD-program, which the registered users can take advantage of, listing all key components. Most of the fields aren't mandatory. A registration key is provided, since there is no plans to make it public as of now, and I can easily distribute the key to the seven other people. The database saves the users and the information about the games, and all signed-in users can edit, add or delete entries. The idea is to use to comment field for short comments for multiple people, but it's not really meant for essays, rather a short answer or question. The entries are sorted by entry time, by including a "hidden" form field for utc time -added. 

## What is missing?
Due to limitations in time and skill, some of my ideas have been left to the future. 
- The principal omission is that it would be fun to be able to alert users with an email, using mailgun or something like it. I already had a look at the documentation, but fell short of my target to start writing it into the program
- Some of the autogenerated form fields are half-baked - while functional, they could be stylized and made more convenient to use (e.g. timepicker)
- The style for the page is mostly just taken from examples on w3 schools.com, so the page isn't pretty
- A forum for messages could be cool, and something I really might try to look into in the near future
- Traceability - who has added what and where, at the same time the "by whom" field could be updated automatically

## Validity for business
None at this stage. However, with a little bit of further development, it could be a fun free download. It really boils down to how keen me and my friends are using it - the test group is admittedly small, but after having been cumbersomely messaging people about sales and suggestions of what to play, I'm sure we'll give it an earnest go. 
